[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7 minute
marketing with Pam my name is Pam dinner
and I love sharing a little dose of b2b
digital content marketing and sales
enablement 7 minutes at a time someone
filled out a question card at my
workshop without leaving a name but I
like this question very much so here's
the question how to reduce the tension
between sales and marketing over timely
follow-up to qualify leads whoever wrote
this question I just want to let you
know that this is a common issues across
industries and company you're not long
marketing was very hard to get leaves
but still said that the leaves can be
converted or are not ready to act down
sometimes they don't even follow up I
get it I think there are three ways to
address this issues number one agree on
actionable and ql definition number two
focus on quality of the leads not
quantity number three establish a
service level agreement which is SLA
let's go with number one okay agreed on
actionable and qø definition I'm gonna
use myself as an example here I do a lot
of research for my clients on messaging
framework SWOT analysis persona creation
and the content writing so I download
white papers trends and reports from
meny website after downloading certain
type of content I would get an email or
a phone call from that company sales
person trying to follow up with me
obviously the marketing team didn't
qualify me before they passed me to
their sales team I usually share my real
first name and the last name by the way
my last name dinner is not very common
if marketing had done some research on
me they would know that I'm not a
qualified lead and probably didn't meet
the sales teams ideal customer profile
which is ICP the best way to get sales
to follow-up Yoli in a timely manner is
to make sure that you pass the leads
that mean their ICP these prospects have
done something on their website to
indicate
they are ready to talk I use Lee genius
as an example frequently the mql
definition is someone who matches sales
ICP and has raised a hand to request a
demo so when this lis is passed to sales
sales know that this person wants to see
the demo right away therefore it's a hot
lead sales has a big incentive to follow
up immediately
number two focus on quality not quantity
many marketing groups are tasked with an
aggressive goals such as 2,000 or more
per month so that's used 2,000 as a
number right if it's 2,000 leaves a
month that's 100 leads per month based
on 20 working days if you are looking
for 100 highly qualified leads you'll
need to amp that to 400 leads per day
assuming a 25 percent conversion rate
people like me may be perceived as a
high qualified lead who came to your
website and downloaded several pieces of
a highly valuable content the highly
score based on content consumption in
this case doesn't mean that I'm highly
qualified prospect continuous nurturing
won't convert me either
giving that I'm only interested in white
papers and the trend reports not
necessarily about the products or
services it's important to have that
frame conversation between the sales and
marketing about goal setting a high
number of leads doesn't equate to high
quality leads sales want to see as many
leads as possible I get it but it may be
unreasonable to task marketing to do all
that work especially if the budget is
small these are not free driving
outbound campaigns for inbound Lee's is
not free either you need to create your
budget with ligo's and educate the sales
and management team to understand that
number three establish a service level
agreement SLA to ensure that the sales
performed timely follow-up ali's trying
to set up a service level agreement and
ask the sales team to commit to follow
up on the leads within a certain amount
of time like 48
to 72 hours after the Li is assigned to
them of course you need to make sure
that you have a dashboard in place to
track that follow-up if they aren't
keeping up have a conversation with them
here's the truth
you'll have salespeople that follow the
service level agreement and you'll also
have sales people that don't maybe you
can do the correlation analysis to see
if the sales people who follow up on
your leads have a higher probability of
meeting their sales target than those
who don't
use the data to have a conversation with
those who aren't following up in a tiny
manner salespeople are motivated by data
if you can show them that timely
follow-up your Lee's help them they'll
do it hopefully the data is on your side
again this is a very common issue on the
marketing side I want to that everybody
know that you are not alone if you are
encountering with this challenge if
anyone of you have other ways to address
this issue please let me know I'm more
than happy to share your best practices
with others and give you credit for it
again if you like the podcast please
leave comments on iTunes keep hustling
my friends you've got this
[Music]